Pwd: displays the current working directory of the terminal 
/: root directory (cd /)
echo: command that writes its arguments to standard output (echo hi, x=100, echo $x)
sudo su: executes only to switch to a different user
su username: su ubuntu go to the root user
clear: this command is used to clear the terminal screen contents will not be deleted but scrolled down
ls: list the contents of a current working directory
cd .. : changes the directory to its parent directory
cd / : changes the directory to root directory
cd ~ : this command also changes the directory to home directory
exit : if you can exit file or entire terminal you want exit
sudo ls : list down the present working directory
man : man command is used to display the manual pages for a given command or topic.( man touch)
cat: This command is used to concatenate and display the contents of one or more files on the terminal (Syntax: cat file1 file2 file3...)
{grep : the grep commands to search a particular string/word in a textfile (cat > automobiles.txt, write some things like: car,bike,bicycle,BMW. cat automobiles.txt,grep ma automobiles.txt)its will reflect the output
(-i: ignore case distinctions
-r: search recursively through directories
-v: invert the match, i.e., show lines that do not match the pattern
-c: show only a count of matching lines, rather than the lines themselves
-l: show only the names of files that contain matching lines
-n: show line numbers for matching lines
-E: use extended regular expressions)}
Sort: sort command is to sort the results of a search either alphabetically or numerically files,file contents and directories can be stored.
sort file: sort the lines in the file file alphabetically
sort -n file: sort the lines in file numerically
sort -k 2,3 file: sort the lines in file by the second and third columns
sort -u file: sort the lines in file and remove duplicates
sort -t , -k 2 file: sort the lines in file by the second column, using commas as the delimiter.
grep dh automobiles.txt | sort(dh word is not there in the list not reflect output)
grep dodge automobiles.txt | sort (word you can give that you will get output)
grep h automobiles.txt | sort( h word it can split output)
grep h automobiles.txt | sort -r ( it will reflect reverse order)
cp : cp command is used to copy files or directories from one location to another.( 
-i: Interactive mode, prompts you before overwriting an existing file.
-r: Recursively copies directories and their contents.
-p: Preserves the file attributes, such as permissions and timestamps, of the original file.
nslookup is a useful tool for troubleshooting DNS issues, verifying DNS records, and obtaining information about domain names and IP addresses.
traceroute :is a command-line tool used to track the path of packets from one network device to another over an IP network.
-v: Verbose mode, prints the names of the files being copied.
cd : its comes to starting current directory
curl ifconfig.me: check your ip address
df: Display disk space usage
curl: downloading files by using curl command
wget:wget is a command-line utility used for downloading files from the internet. It is similar to the curl command but is primarily used for downloading files rather than sending requests. 
Ping: ping command uses the network of server it send the data of the server(c means count,s means size,i means millisecond) ( ping -c 2 google.com) (ping -s 100 google.com) (ping -i 0.5 google.com)
dd:The dd command is a Linux command-line utility used for copying and converting data. It can be used for a wide range of tasks, including disk imaging, backup and restore, and low-level data manipulation.
init:init command has been replaced by newer initialization systems such as Systemd, Upstart, or SysV init.
nslookup:nslookup is a command-line tool used to query DNS (Domain Name System) servers to obtain information about domain names and IP addresses.
nslookup is a useful tool for troubleshooting DNS issues, verifying DNS records, and obtaining information about domain names and IP addresses.(its similar to ping)
netstat:netstat is a command-line tool used to display various network-related information such as network connections, routing tables, and network interfaces.
gzip:Compress a file: The gzip command can be used to compress a file, reducing its size and saving disk space. The compressed file has the extension .gz
chown:The chown command lets you change the ownership of a file, directory, or symbolic link to a specified username.(, you want to make linuxuser2 the owner of filename.txt:
chown linuxuser2 filename.txt)
hostname -i : your hostname it can display







chmod og+s file
chmod +x file - Adds execute permission to a file.
chmod -x file - Removes execute permission from a file.
chmod +r file - Adds read permission to a file.
chmod -r file - Removes read permission from a file.
chmod +w file - Adds write permission to a file.
chmod -w file - Removes write permission from a file.
chmod u+x file - Adds execute permission for the owner of the file.
chmod g+r file - Adds read permission for the group owner of the file.
chmod o-w file - Removes write permission for other users.
chmod a=rwx file - Gives all users (owner, group, and other) read, write, and execute permissions to a file.
chmod 755 file - Sets the permissions of a file to rwxr-xr-x, which gives the owner full permissions, and the group and others read and execute permissions.
chmod 644 file - Sets the permissions of a file to rw-r--r--, which gives the owner full permissions, and the group and others read-only permissions.
